The Joe Rogan experience.
Because if they continue to do things like Chaz,
the six block place in Seattle, I mean,
that seemed like almost a little bit of a test, a little bit of a test run.
I mean,
they did a mad max style takeover of six blocks in Seattle and held it for a
considerable amount of time with the compliance of the mayor who called it the
summer of love. Okay.
I saw, I saw a video, a video of their, uh,
of what happened after chairs. And there were like zombie,
like people lying around on the grass.
Everything seemed to be covered in urine and there weren't any statutes.
Obviously there are a hell of a lot of plinths and everything had graffiti over
and I thought people should realize,
this is what you inherit that you'll inherit rubble. So inherit stain rubble.
And I'm not sure how many people have got that lesson yet.
Well, they should read your book. The madness of crowds is excellent.
It really is. It's a very good book. And, you know,
you wrote that book before the really hit the fan, but, uh,
it was eerily accurate in, in many ways when you were,
you were talking about the current problems and where they could lead.
And there's,
there's so much of what you were saying in that book that could be used as like
a guide to what's happening today.
That's what I hoped. I mean, I did it a year ago. I've updated it now. And,
uh, did you hit it off? Well, basically because now, um,
is that is out of this month, is that basically,
I thought something very interesting happened through the COVID era,
which was that at the beginning of it, I thought we all thought, okay,
this is a plague like with Justinian plague, it's going to end the empire.
You know, we're all going to lose Matt and massive numbers of our loved ones.
And if that's the case, at least at these end times,
the social justice warriors will pipe down. Uh, you know,
it was my one constellation was I thought, at least,
at least we won't have to deal with them so much because if everyone's got real
problems, if everyone's got real complaints,
kind of microaggressions start to seem less important than they have done in
recent years.
So that was my assumption at the beginning was if the plague was what it seemed
at first, then we'd hear less from these people.
And then my impression was that as, as, as COVID went on,
something very interesting happened,
which was that our tolerance for the social justice activists
diminished. I mean, there were little,
little things like a little bits of light, like Sam Smith, you know, uh,
from his mansion posts, a photo of him, uh,
sort of crying a bit and sort of sad because he's lonely.
And normally that would be old Sam Smith. They,
they is feeling bad and, and, and so on. And there was just total,
uh, um, we don't care. We don't care who, you know, Smith,
Samsung Smith is a brilliant, I'm so pleased. You don't know of him. Um, uh,
fills me with joy. He's got a horrible, horrible whining voice. He sang,
uh, the,
one of the worst bond sort of theme songs against some really stiff competition,
as you know. And, um, it was one that nobody had, anyhow,
Sam Smith was the guy who came out as gay then as gender,
and then as nonbinary or look at me.
Or look at me, at least.
Casey is coming out. He's coming out as a look at me.
That's what it should be called. It should be called, coming out is look at me.
Yeah. What the is non binary.
So, so then he,
so he came out as look at me and then a bit later he wanted more attention and
he posted a photo of himself in his mansion saying how difficult he was finding
COVID and just, there was a complete lack of empathy. Oh my God.
And I sort of thought things like that were a good sign, you know,
because we got that, that's it, you know, if at best,
we're all going to see a massive decline in our living standards.
And our whole society has got mass unemployment and so on. Then I thought, well,
at least we'll hear a bit less than those guys.
And then several things happened. Um,
the first was that some people started doing things along the following lines,
as you know, a madness of crowds.
I do each of these internally gay women that is relations between the sexes
race and trans.
And I noticed that the women thing came in first that people started saying
things like women are suffering most from COVID.
And I thought, well, okay, we've got to look at the stats on this.
And then the stats came in and it showed that men were disproportionately likely
to die. And then the same people said, well,
the men like to do during the dying,
but the women are doing the suffering or something.
And that didn't make very much sense,
but it showed that there was some people who needed to look at this through the
prism. They've looked through everything, which is women, men,
uh, disproportionate, uh, relations between the sexes.
And then you got some people doing that with gay. Um,
the BBC in my own country in Britain started running pieces about, you know,
it's difficult for a lot of LGBT people because they're,
they're living with their families who might be homophobic. And, um,
again, you know, you sort of read these stories, you thought, well, yeah,
a lot of people are living with their families who are the well, their families.
I mean,
they're having to live with their mum and dad and they might be heterosexual and
they'd just be forced into chastity by government regulations. You know, they,
you know what I mean? It's difficult for everyone.
Why do we need to single that out?
Then there was a story about somebody who I kid you, not, by the way, Joe,
you'll love this one.
The BBC had a story which was of a trans person who said,
write a headline was I'm I'm,
I'm fearful that I'm going to be buried in the wrong gender.
Oh boy. And of course I just thought, well,
a lot of us are just fearful of being buried, you know, period,
call me a woman when I'm dead. I don't know you can, mis-gender me,
all you like, I just, I don't want to be buried. That's.
Not so grazing, not.
This year, not this year, the citizens.
So that sort of thing started happening. And I thought, oh,
this is just they're just, but again, I still thought they'll double down,
but the majority won't listen to them.
And then Minnesota happened and the race one came back with a
vengeance and that had been happening through COVID obviously,
because in all of our countries, we had this thing of, uh, uh,
ethnic minorities,
sticky black people suffering disproportionately from the virus.
And what I was worried about was that in the American media and the British
media and elsewhere, this was being portrayed as if, as if,
if this was the case. And it does seem to be,
then it was because like America couldn't even import a virus from
China without giving it its own special racist, spin. You know,
that all of the things that you could look at to explain why there might be a
higher mortality rate, including, uh,
higher numbers of perhaps nurses in the health service, um,
underlying health issues and,
and much more that that wasn't being focused on.
It kept on being portrayed as if this could only be because of racism.
And, and that just worried me because I thought even a virus,
a pandemic can't bring us together and we still have these people doing this.
But as I say, it wasn't until after Minnesota, that then that really took off.
And we discovered something very important, which is that,
but the racism and the whole issue of race is even more important than
trying to avoid the pandemic. And, and that,
and everything has flowed from it is just rolling on and on. And it's very,
very worrying. It's everything I feared would happen,
which was everybody doubling down on these identity traits
in the era. When we all hoped we could move beyond them. You know.
We also got to this weird point where we're supposed to collectively
ignore the fact that having 50,000 people marching through the streets,
arm and arm could easily be spreading the disease.
And there was this giant uptick of the disease in America,
and everyone stuck their head in the sand and pretended they were not
connected that everyone wanted to pretend well,
it had nothing to do with the protests. Well, if you.
Yeah, it's cool. More, it wasn't, it wasn't just head in the sand.
It was actually saying that we don't mind. I mean,
the medical medical professionals in America who signed a joint letter,
defending people going out on the protests were saying that the
racism kills and so does COVID,
but racism is a clearly a bigger underlying risk than COVID.
And if you've taken that view,
then everything's possible. Isn't it? I mean, I mean, I mean,
apart from the fact, there's not,
it's clearly not true because however you would, you know, work,
the numbers of people killed by racism, uh, which does exist.
But I mean the,
to claim that the mortality rates from racism are a higher than those from COVID
when, what are the figures in America now? You know,
six figures of people who've done under 90,000, you know,
I guess it's surely the people who claim that racism kills more people than
COVID should have to answer and say,
where are the 190,000 racist murders in America this year?
You know? And that doesn't happen. And that's medical professionals saying that.
Well, you've got everyone terrified of being labeled as a racist.
That that's where we've gotten to this point, how we've gotten to this point.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, we live in an era where all of the,
all of the worst things you can be accused of are also not provable and not
disprovable. And that's something I say in the madness of crowds,
which is just very difficult for us. You know,
it happens every day to someone is, you know, I mean,
someone gets called the whole charge sheet, but homophobic, transphobic,
misogynist, racist. And first of all,
obviously people can level that without any evidence.
And often knowing that it's not true,
but the problem is the person who is said to has no defense. Cause you, you,
you cannot eat actually prove you're not a racist.
You can't prove you're not a misogynist.
You can't prove you're not a homophobic happens all the time. People say,
you know, I'm not a homophobia. Uh, um,
it happened with the former Australian prime minister the other day.
I'm not a homophobe and my sister-in-law's a lesbian and she married a partner
and I was at the wedding, but they still say, he's a homophobia.
You can't prove that the claim isn't true.
And the worst of that is obviously with racism.
And so obviously everybody in the era is trying desperately to avoid the
claim because once the claim is made, we, as society has no way to brush it off.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.